Most likely you have been trying to
figure out how to fix yourself by like
watching enough YouTube videos that
you'll finally get some piece of wisdom
that's going to get you to where you
want to go. And what you've probably
noticed at this point is that that
hasn't actually been working or it works
a little bit for maybe a short period of
time and then it doesn't work. So, I
want to go into what makes anything that
you're doing in self-help work and what
makes the videos not work and how you
can approach them differently so that
they might actually have a long-term
effect on your life.
I can just sit here and say things and
you can nod and say I agree or you can
shake your head and say you don't agree,
but until you've actually experienced
it, you're not going to really
understand if it works. So, if you
really want to make a YouTube video
something that is going to change your
life, you have to design experiments so
that you can find out what's true for
you or what's not true for you or so
that you can feel it in your body. So if
somebody says to you, hey, you've got to
have discipline to make it all work out,
then go and try to have discipline for a
week. And if you can't have discipline
for a week, then there's something that
you don't understand or something that
they didn't communicate to you. And then
you can design another experiment about
how to have discipline. And so whatever
is being told to you by a YouTube video,
if you're just listening to it and not
actually making it yours, if you're not
running an experiment, if you're not
trying it out to see what it's like to
live that way, then it's just going to
go in one ear and out the other and
you're going to forget most of it and
it's not going to change anything. It
doesn't really even matter if it's a
YouTube video or if it's a self-help
book. making it yours, running an
experiment to see what's going to be
true for you and see what it's like to
feel it in your body is going to make a
massive difference than just actually
letting it go in one ear and out the
other or just hearing it and then not
doing anything with it. So that's the
first thing. The second thing is you're
not going to get a quick
fix. What that means is that you might
change quickly. You might change much
quicker than you think. probably your
brain is saying on some level, I'm not
going to ever be able to change. And
that in itself is an issue. But when
you're on the YouTube channel like
looking for things, you're trying to
find that one thing that makes you go,
okay, good. Now it's all different. And
that's not how transformation works. The
way transformation works is that you
relate to yourself differently. The way
transformation works is that you see
patterns and feel things that you don't
want to feel and you don't want to see
and you become intimate with them and
you start to understand what's actually
behind it. And when you do, it
transforms very quickly. If you start
feeling the emotions you don't want to
feel, if you start seeing the parts of
yourself that you don't want to see, if
you embrace the intensity of
transformation, then things can change
quite quickly. But that doesn't come
because somebody told you something in a
in a YouTube video. It doesn't come
because of something that I'm going to
say. It comes because of something that
you're going to experience. And so your
personal experience is incredibly
important. And your willingness to look
at the things that you don't want to
look at is important. And in some
degree, often times people are watching
this YouTube video so they don't have to
look at themselves. So they can just
say, "Oh, this is what's wrong with me.
This is how I fix it." But that's not
actually looking at
yourself. The third reason that YouTube
videos often aren't going to work for
you is because you think that there's a
problem with you and you go to fix it,
but most likely you're wrong about what
you think the problem is. Most likely
you think, "Oh, I'm lazy. How do I get
unlazy?" Or, "I'm poor. How do I get
rich?" But the core is that you have a
relationship with yourself that isn't
working. The core issue is that you have
the way that you are relating to
yourself is reflected in your life. So
if you are having a bad relationship
with money, it's reflective of a bad
relationship you're having with
yourself. If you are having a bad
relationship with your boyfriend or
girlfriend, it's a reflection of the
relationship you have with
yourself. If you are not living up to
your dreams, it's a reflection of not
having a great relationship with
yourself. But nobody on YouTube is
saying, "Here's how to have a great
relationship with yourself." What
they're doing is they're agreeing with
the problem statement in your mind.
They're agreeing. They're saying, "Here,
you want to be more extroverted. Here's
how to be more extroverted." But what
they're not saying is, "Here's the way
that you think about yourself that says
that keeps you small, and here's how to
actually change that relationship with
yourself." So, as long as you're walking
around trying to solve the problems that
your brain is telling you you have
rather than the core problem, then the
video is really just not going to get
you where you want to
go. And honestly, the reason I'm making
this video is because we've been sitting
here in this place in Denver, Colorado
for multiple days trying to figure out
like how do I make videos that people
are going to watch that actually say the
thing that I want to say? And the
problem that I'm having is that I know
all the videos that people think they're
going to that like the producers and the
and the consultants think are going to
actually be watched are videos that I
don't want to make cuz they're not going
to actually have a significant change in
your life. Because what I know actually
changes the way that you are going to be
is to change the relationship with
yourself. How do you stop having a war
with yourself? Because in a war with
yourself, you're always going to lose.
right now in this moment with me. What
is it to stop looking for a
solution? What is it to right now with
me get in touch with what's happening in
you right
now to feel the thing that's maybe a
little uncomfortable, that maybe is a
little intense and welcome
it. to open yourself up to the thing
that you don't want to look at, that you
don't want to feel. And that's how you
you pay attention. You find the thing in
this moment. Oh, this this way of
thinking about it gives me some relief.
This way of accepting it gives me some
sort of of understanding. This leaning
into a difficulty, this uncomfortable
thing that I'm feeling right now, but
I'm
accepting changes me. It changes you
right now, and it's going to change you
in the long term.